just doing a really spontaneous relaxed
conversation here on you now if you guys
don't know I broadcast on you now from
time to time partly because the very
real loneliness of my life in China
although being a vegan in Canada was
lonely as hell too and I've talked about
that plenty of this YouTube channel but
one of the questions was about coping
with loneliness here in Asia and I
talked for a while but the fact that in
many ways I deal with loneliness in Asia
that that other people can't imagine and
that's because the type of loneliness
you're locked into here you know the
language barrier is so crucial it's so
important to everything dividend you
can't complain but I mentioned this like
back when I was living in Laos there'd
be long periods of time when I never had
a meaningful conversation in English I
can't say I wasn't speaking English at
all because you know you could go to the
pharmacy or you could go to the post
office and they'd have a worker there
who spoke some English and you'd say I
send this letter to Canada or something
you know you'd say a few words in
English like that but where you're not
having any conversations in English even
though I mean you know I was learning
the language and speaking Lao there are
limits to how meaningful those
interactions are going to be so
obviously here in China that's a reality
and now apparently I'm moving from
conveying the big city out to the border
with Myanmar a very ethnically diverse
area where people speak five different
languages but none of them are English
so my ability to communicate with other
people even though I am gregarious I am
personable I am self-confident not a shy
person I have no problem sparking up
conversations with people and like you
know you guys have heard me tell stories
with the gym everybody at the gym knows
me you know what I mean like you know
it's cool but what are you gonna talk
about in Chinese you know you can say
this everybody that you have knows me
but there's another sense in which
they'll never know me right because the
language barrier so the loneliness I
live with and then I've grown accustomed
to living with in Asia is acute and it
would drive some people crazy and I've
seen people I've met people who are
driven crazy but I've met people who you
know one of the common ways to respond
is alcoholism drinking alcohol to cope
with the loneliness that kind of thing
but you see people who
whoo one way or another go nuts and
often you know that the guys there white
white men who marry Asian women but then
after they get married they realize how
isolated they are and again they can
talk to their wives
about some topics to some extent but
maybe you know on a more philosophical
level they're things they can never
discuss you know anyway I've met all
types of metal sorts and all variations
but um I do Co pretty well with
loneliness and then there was a next
question uh following up someone said
well do you reject people do you refuse
to become friends with people because
they eat me because they're not vegan
because I and that came because I
mentioned in passing there are some
people who refuse to be my friend who
hate me who dislike me because I'm vegan
I don't even complain like I can see it
from their perspective like it's
rational I disagree with it but it's
rational you know there are people for
whom meat and alcohol are nine-tenths of
what they do in their spare time you
know when they're at work that's one
thing but their free time is devoted to
the consumption of meat alcohol and
there are other people for whom it's you
know meat and marijuana or whatever but
there are people for whom you know
culturally and personally and in so many
ways uh you know it's a big part of
their identity it's fruit in a can so do
it but do I reject people as my friends
are possible friends because they
because they eat meat because they're
not vegan having mentioned that there
are some people who reject me for that
reason and I I can see from the
perspective I think you know the realist
answer you can give here is is you
shouldn't have a policy on this I don't
think anyone should set down a rule in
their lives and say I'm never gonna make
friends with people unless they meet
these criteria I think you've got to
take it on a case-by-case basis but you
know on that case-by-case basis
sometimes its decisive but normally it's
because of what it tells me about the
person's other attitudes towards life
it's the way in which they're anti vegan
it's not just the fact that they're into
being
remember I used to do humanitarian work
so I'd meet other people who were in
very obvious ways making the world a
better place like okay they give a corny
example you meet someone whose job is
literally going into hospitals and
saving lives I'm really thinking if
someone actually worked in hospital
equipment that actually does save lives
though you know it's not like you're
saving lives through your hands but your
hands are installing the equipment you
know in a third-world country to be that
kind of specialist you meet people doing
all kinds and you know people handing
out sacks of rice to starving people
whatever so you mean people are doing
good things with their lives an obvious
way but they're killing cows and pigs
and chickens every day without thinking
about it without giving him so I bet a
lot of those people and I can't say that
the meat-eating was ever decisive but
often when it came up and you saw their
rationale for why they ate meat or for
why they were disparaging and insulting
towards vegans that told you a lot about
who they were and then for that reason
it's like I'm not gonna lift a finger to
make this friendship happen uh so
recently it was a little bit touching to
me I met a completely unplanned meeting
I bumped into a guy but I was a done
play mean but I was in a part of town
where he hung out I bumped into a guy
who I knew here in could Ming in nine
years ago and he is a white man living
in China who is struggling with that
loneliness that I was describing at the
top of this video and he was nine years
ago and he's still struggling with that
loneliness now now it's not he doesn't
talk to people he talks to people every
day he talks to people at work you know
he talks to people all the time he knows
a whole circle of other white men who
speak English she Renkin Ming and he has
friends and colleagues and you know I
mean he does it he does have a certain
social circle but again a lot of those
interactions are very limited because
the language barrier and then on the
other hand you know some of them are
limited for political reasons which I
can really sympathize with so he was
actually complaining to me believe me I
could sit that's this he was saying that
you know the other white guys here who
were again they're white people I knew
here nine years ago it's amazing these
anyway sorry a lot of them are losers a
lot of them for a lot of them this part
of China is a dead end where they came
to curl up and
died and for me it's not and the
difference in how you live your life is
subtle but I mean you can even see that
within the Western when you go to
Florida for some people Florida is where
they go to die and for some people it's
where they go to live and some people
move to Florida with a lot of ambition
and wanting to make something happen and
some people go there were absolutely no
ambition absolutely no vision for the
future and no purpose and they sink down
into it so the same thing with a place
like China a place like Thailand would
have you it's 40% real fruit so uh this
guy this particular example of a guy for
whom this is where he's gonna fade away
frankly he was really really eager to be
my friend or to be my friend again
because I knew him nine years ago and
you know um what he had to say about
veganism and vegetarianism was very
contemptuous and very dismissive and
very insulting
and the reasoning behind it and the type
of excuse making and the type of
justification there that showed
something about his character and now
because I knew him nine years ago I also
know that he is a white man who very
regularly you know sleeps with
prostitutes who pays money to have sex
with Chinese women and brothels and I
know that he has excuses and
rationalizations and conflicted feelings
and emotions and I know that he's a
white man who at one time had
aspirations intellectually to be a
published author to be important to be
accomplished to be a historian and he
has excuses for why he has made so
little effort why he's made so little
progress in the last say 20 years in
that direction
so you know the type of excuse making
that's tied to what he said to me about
veganism even though what he said to me
of veganism was in some ways
mean-spirited it's not in his case it
wasn't really what was the mean-spirited
element that spoke to me I you know I
just sat there and listened to him what
he had to say about veganism
and it was like I'm never gonna talk to
you again that's always that I didn't
say that to him that was what I was
thinking and I think he could see it in
my eyes I wasn't angry my expression
didn't change but you know at the end of
conversation he really said to me he
sent me an email afterwards saying you
know look I hope we can be friends again
you know he's so desperate to talk to
someone else who's a real intellectual
someone who cares about history someone
cares about politics and someone who
doesn't have the kind of political
differences from him that other people
have here someone who's not an extremist
in politics or attacking you
and you know in some ways I can relate
and some ways that can sympathize but we
also have to make those judgments who
are we gonna make time for who are we
gonna open up the doors to who are we
gonna trust who were gonna involve in
our lives and buddy it ain't you it
ain't him you know so you know there
have been other people I mean I remember
I won't even say who there was one old
man and he just said he agreed with
veganism completely in principle but he
couldn't do it cuz he was too old to
change his ways and we had several
conversations I felt we had no conflict
you know I've heard that case it was
just real he just basically said yeah
that's veganism is correct I remember he
described it as beautiful he said with a
beautiful way to live and it was morally
correct but he said I'm too old now and
I can't do it we'll talk now you know I
did talk to him more than about that I
got his I got his perspective a little
bit and was interesting he was really it
was he was really morally opposed to
sportfishing like there was some really
peculiar examples available that really
spoke to him like you know fly-fishing
this this hobby like he would really
felt that was deeply immoral okay it's
just interesting like you know
idiosyncratically there were different
elements of animal rights that he really
cared about you heard his perspective
but that that was his real answer so I
didn't feel I had I had any great
conflict with him and again that tells
you something about his character so do
I have some kind of simple policy like
no you and me can't be friends we're
never going to be cool cuz you're not
vegan no and of course a lot of people
who become my friends they become
vegan or they become reduce Italian
because they know me which is a
beautiful part of my life um but on a
case-by-case basis sometimes when people
talk you through that why it is they
they're not vegan or why they ridicule
veganism I think that really does link
to other ugly elements their character
and reasons why maybe you two should not
be friends why you should not open the
door to them and again with friendship
you are opening door to them they could
have a really negative impact on your
life too